gh-92308: Add Pending Removal section to 3.11 What's New (#92309)
python/cpython: Doc/whatsnew/3.11.rst

  (Contributed by Serhiy Storchaka in :gh:`91760`.)

Pending Removal in Python 3.12
==============================

The following APIs have been deprecated in earlier Python releases, and are now

> pending removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer: This could be clearer.  I'm not sure if it's telling me that they will be removed in 3.12, or if they are marked as "pending removal" (i.e. deprecated?) in 3.12.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:

```restructuredtext
The following APIs have been deprecated in earlier Python releases, 
and will be removed in Python 3.12.
```

There's the possibility that removal will be delayed, but I think the stronger language is OK as it covers the vast majority of cases (if it isn't, we could go back to "are scheduled for removal in ...")

A

Reviewer 3: I prefer to be more explicit: "will be removed in Python 3.12" sounds more concrete. It's ok if one of these function is kept. We can update the Python 3.11 doc if needed.

Reviewer 4: Agreed with @vstinner ; its much better that users assume they will be removed and update their code accordingly and then the removal be deferred a version than the inverse.

> The following APIs have been deprecated in earlier Python releases, and are now
> pending removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following APIs have been deprecated in earlier Python releases,
and will be removed in Python 3.12.
```

> Python API::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python API:
```

Author: Yeah, I just noticed (see ed590cc646ca05a5ded359dbc304ccba596cbafc). Thanks for the heads-up anyway!

* :class:`pkgutil.ImpImporter`
* :class:`pkgutil.ImpLoader`
* :envvar:`PYTHONTHREADDEBUG`
* :func:`importlib.find_loader`
* :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader`
* :func:`importlib.util.set_loader_wrapper`
* :func:`importlib.util.set_package_wrapper`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.Loader.module_repr`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.Loadermodule_repr`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.MetaPathFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.MetaPathFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.PathEntryFinder.find_loader`
* :meth:`importlib.abc.PathEntryFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.BuiltinImporter.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.BuiltinLoader.module_repr`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.FileFinder.find_loader`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.FileFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.FrozenImporter.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.FrozenLoader.module_repr`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.PathFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`importlib.machinery.WindowsRegistryFinder.find_module`
* :meth:`pathlib.Path.link_to`
* The entire :ref:`distutils namespace <distutils-deprecated>`
* ``cgi.log()``
* ``sqlite3.OptimizedUnicode``

> * ``sqlite3.enable_shared_cache``

Reviewer 3: I prefer to use the same format to make sure that it's the same formatting, even if these functions are not documented:

```suggestion
* :func:`cgi.log`
* :func:`sqlite3.OptimizedUnicode`
* :func:`sqlite3.enable_shared_cache`
```

Reviewer 4: I agree with the consistency argument, but does Sphinx still generate (null/404) links on role targets that don't exist in the index?

Reviewer: It generates a non-clickable black text, instead of a blue one.  Note that ` ``...`` ` also adds a darker background, and `` :func:`...` `` adds `()` at the end.  Sphinx also doesn't raise any warning for invalid targets, and neither does `make check` so we don't have to worry about that (maybe they should though?).

IOW, I agree with what @vstinner suggested.

> C API:

Reviewer 3: Around Python 3.9, I moved Build Changes and C API changes at the end of the document since most users never write any line of C API. I suggest you to move this list inside the C API Changes section: add a new " Pending Removal in Python 3.12" section there.

Reviewer 4: > If you click on a function, you can find the deprecation note there and usually you get a suggestion to replace the deprecated function. For example, importlib.find_loader() suggests using importlib.util.find_spec() instead.

Yeah; typically, I'd think if a user actually uses a function, they'd want more details anyway, and if functions don't have clear guidance on why they are deprecated and what to replace them with (or not), then it can be added there.

> C API::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C API:
```

* :c:func:`PyUnicode_AS_DATA`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_AS_UNICODE`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_AsUnicodeAndSize`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_AsUnicode`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_FromUnicode`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_GET_DATA_SIZE`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_GET_SIZE`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_GetSize`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_IS_COMPACT`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_IS_READY`
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_READY`
* :c:func:`Py_UNICODE_WSTR_LENGTH`
* :c:func:`_PyUnicode_AsUnicode`
* :c:macro:`PyUnicode_WCHAR_KIND`
* :c:type:`PyUnicodeObject`

> * ``PyUnicode_InternImmortal()``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* :c:func:`PyUnicode_InternImmortal()`
```

  (Contributed by Serhiy Storchaka in :gh:`91760`.)

Pending Removal
===============

> * ``Py_UNICODE`` encoder APIs are pending removal as per :pep:`624`

Reviewer 2: Is there a version for this? The PEP only mentions 3.11

Author: I don't remember. Maybe 3.12.

Reviewer 5: They are removed already.
Changes in Python 3.12 is scheduled in [PEP 623](https://peps.python.org/pep-0623/#python-3-12).

Author: Thanks for the clarification, Inada!

Author: PTAL and feel free to add a review, @methane.

* The entire :ref:`distutils namespace <distutils-deprecated>` is scheduled for
  removal in Python 3.12.

* The various implementations of
  :meth:`importlib.abc.MetaPathFinder.find_module` (
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.BuiltinImporter.find_module`,
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.FrozenImporter.find_module`,
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.WindowsRegistryFinder.find_module`,
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.PathFinder.find_module`,
  :meth:`importlib.abc.MetaPathFinder.find_module` ),
  :meth:`importlib.abc.PathEntryFinder.find_module` (
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.FileFinder.find_module` ), and
  :meth:`importlib.abc.PathEntryFinder.find_loader` (
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.FileFinder.find_loader` )

>   are slated for removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  are scheduled for removal in Python 3.12.
```

Author: FTR, I've applied all your suggestions, but I haven't pushed yet.

  (Contributed by Brett Cannon in :issue:`42135`.)

* The deprecations of :mod:`imp`, :func:`importlib.find_loader`,
  :func:`importlib.util.set_package_wrapper`,
  :func:`importlib.util.set_loader_wrapper`,
  :func:`importlib.util.module_for_loader`,
  :class:`pkgutil.ImpImporter`, and

>   :class:`pkgutil.ImpLoader` are slated for in Python 3.12.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :class:`pkgutil.ImpLoader` are scheduled for removal in Python 3.12.
```

  (Contributed by Brett Cannon in :issue:`43720`.)

* :meth:`importlib.abc.Loadermodule_repr` is scheduled for removal in
  Python 3.12.
  (Contributed by Brett Cannon in :issue:`42137`.)

* :meth:`importlib.abc.Loader.module_repr`,
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.FrozenLoader.module_repr`, and
  :meth:`importlib.machinery.BuiltinLoader.module_repr` are

>   slated for removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  scheduled for removal in Python 3.12.
```

  (Contributed by Brett Cannon in :issue:`42136`.)

> * Undocumented ``sqlite3.OptimizedUnicode`` is scheduled for removal in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The undocumented class ``sqlite3.OptimizedUnicode`` is scheduled for removal in
```

  Python 3.12.
  (Contributed by Erlend E. Aasland in :issue:`42264`.)

> * Undocumented ``sqlite3.enable_shared_cache`` is scheduled for removal in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The undocumented function ``sqlite3.enable_shared_cache`` is scheduled for removal in
```

  Python 3.12.
  (Contributed by Erlend E. Aasland in :issue:`24464`.)

> * :meth:`pathlib.Path.link_to` is slated for removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :meth:`pathlib.Path.link_to` is scheduled for removal in Python 3.12.
```

  (Contributed by Barney Gale in :issue:`39950`.)

> * ``cgi.log()`` is slated for removal in Python 3.12.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``cgi.log()`` is scheduled for removal in Python 3.12.
```
